ls lists the files in current directory
to create txt file touch basics.txt
creating local repo(add,commit)
CREATE FOLDER NAME EX:TEST
git init
echo "hello,git" >> readme.txt
git add
git commit
git status
git log
viewing history
notepad readme.txt
(opens notepad)
you can update by entering other msgs
hello,git(old sentence)
hi, everyone
git add -u
git commit -m "updated this"
difference between 2 versions?
git diff Head~1..Head or git diff Head~1..(Head1 is older version nd head is new version)
add 2 files at onces?
touch file1.txt file2.txt
git add -A
git commit -m "added 2 files at once"
git log(you can check)
deleting file?

Use git rm.
If you want to remove the file from the Git repository and the filesystem, use:
git rm file1.txt
git commit -m "remove file1.txt"
But if you want to remove the file only from the Git repository and not remove it from the filesystem, use:

git rm --cached file1.txt
git commit -m "remove file1.txt"

to check content in file? ex:cat file3.txt
undo uncommited changes:
undo changes made to file(undoing changes to the working copy)? git checkout file3.txt
undo changes made to whole files in folder?  git checkout -- .

undo commited changes:
git revert 7783838838 i.e commit id (7783838838)
undo/redoing changes made to the repository?
redo
git reset -hard 7789889 (it redos changes to particular version at last time)
cleaning working files
ex:touch temp1.txt temp2.txt(creates 2 files)
git clean -n 
output:would remove both files
git clean -f
removed
working with git remotely?
git clone httpslink from github
to see all  commits from this folder?
git log
in precise way
git log --oneline
statistics
to find how many number of commits done?
git log --oneline|wc -l
to see graph view ?
git log --oneline --graph (we can see different merges and branches)
to know authors(alphabetically) who made commits,displays commit messages and how many commits they made particularly?
git shortlog
to know who made different commits in  decreasing order with particular email-id?
git  shortlog -sn
we can also see all these statistics and graphs in github
to know the what was last commit made ?
git show head
by particular id?
git show head 72828
git default name from where the source came from ?
 git remote
to know the https url ?
git remote -v
If you have private repo you can demand a password for one or both read or write (port 80/443 http(s))
for read only(9418 port git) it is not user friendly to read this u need to call organization infrastructure team
ssh 22 portal also can be used for read-write .It uses ssh keys for authentication 
file n/a for cloning,pulling,pushing (read-write)
to know  details of repo cat .git/config
to know what are the branches 
git branch
to know the past branches history in github?
git branch -r
to see the versions in git in repo
git tag(displays all versions i.e to mark all release points)
to create tag by annotated tags(can give the message and all the info about tagger is present and it will be stored as complete object in git repo)
step 1:move to that branch ex:git checkout master
git tag -a v1.2 -m "version 1.2"
by lightweighted(no message can be kept and full info is not displayed like who is tagger nd tym tagged)
git tag v1.4-lw or git tag v1.4
to delete tag
git tag -d v1.4-lw
to push tags 
git push --tags
git fetch
If you only want to see all of the current branches and changes in your remote repository, 
Git fetch can get you all of the information you need without actually making any local changes to your work.
This gives you time to decide on the best course of action for incorporating your changes, such as merging them in or fast-forwarding your local branch. 
git remote?
If i have local repository and should add remote repository then
git remote add origin https://github.com/KandayVikas/javabasics.git
you can keep any name rather than origin also
origin is the human-friendly name for the URL that the remote repository is stored at
get fetch -all (fetches all branches)
If i type git log
it shows all commits made on local repo but now if i made modification in remote repo and enter git log it wont display
so after modification in remote repo type git log origin/main to see commits then to reflect that changes to local repo 
enter git merge origin/main
rather than fetch and merge u can use git pull
git branch --set-upstream-to main origin main (this upstream tracking branch is basically what branch remotely does my local branch mirror)
git pull
Use git pull to update a local repository from the corresponding remote repository. 
Ex: While working locally on master, execute git pull to update the local copy of master and update the other remote tracking branches.
 tags will stay for shah1 its like friendly name but branches changes
 git commit -m is used to submit the file in the staging area; git commit -am is used to submit the tracked file. 
Traced files are files that have been included in version control management.
to rename a branch git branch -m fix1(old name) fix2(new name)
to delete a branch git branch -d fix2
create and move to branch at a tym git checkout -b feature2
to recover all deleted commits
git reflog (to see where all heads refs are present)
git branch fix2(deleted branch name) sha id 92882ac
stashing changes (it is holding area for the changes to happen so rather than doing commit u can use stash after changes happen u can stash apply)
echo "feature 2 changes" >> readme.md
git stash
cat readme.md(you cant find feature 2 changes here)
git stash list
git stash apply(to apply)
to remove from stash git stash pop
to again reset stash
git stash
to add branch git stash branch feature_add
git commit -am "hh"
